{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat\deflang16393\deflangfe16393{\fonttbl{\f0\fswiss\fprq2\fcharset0 Arial;}{\f1\froman\fprq2\fcharset0 Times New Roman;}{\f2\fnil\fcharset0 Arial;}{\f3\fnil\fcharset2 Symbol;}}
{\colortbl ;\red0\green0\blue255;\red5\green99\blue193;}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.14393}{\*\mmathPr\mdispDef1\mwrapIndent1440 }\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\nowidctlpar\qj\b\f0\fs16 RESUME (Confidential)\par
Ajay Budhraja\par
\b0 Mobile: 2027104106   \par
Email: {{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "mailto:ajagileusa@gmail.com" }}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf1\cf2\ul ajagileusa@gmail.com}}}}\f0\fs16\par
\par
\b Qualifications: \lang1033 ME (Engineering), MS (Management), PMP, CICM, CSM, ECM Master (AIIM), COTR, ITIL-F, SOA (IBM), RUP (IBM), SEI-CMMI, Security+,  Amazon Web Services\fs18\lang16393\par
\b0\fs16 Status: US CITIZEN\par
\b Summary:\par

\pard{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf3\pnindent360{\pntxtb\'B7}}\nowidctlpar\fi-360\li720\qj\b0 Ajay Budhraja has over 27 years in Information Technology with experience in areas such as Agile management, strategic planning, enterprise architecture, system architecture, software engineering, training, methodologies, networks, and databases. \par

\pard{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf3\pnindent360{\pntxtb\'B7}}\nowidctlpar\fi-360\li720 Certified Scrum Master (CSM) and Rational Unified Process (RUP) specializing in AGILE methodologies, Lean and expert in Agile coaching, DevOps.  Scrum Master/Project Manager experience for large and multiple IT projects. Also worked on FDD (Feature Driven Development), XP. EXPERT AGILE COACH, SCRUMMASTER, DEVOPS. \par
{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}Extensive experience in Agile management, development, design and implementation, managing agile projects, transitioning to agile and in architecting, designing implementing solutions, iterative and incremental development lifecycle standards. Agile leadership and program management for nationwide and global programs and implemented integrated Enterprise Information Technology solutions. Extensive Information Technology related experience on all aspects of information resource management and technology and ensuring security compliance.\par

\pard{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf3\pnindent360{\pntxtb\'B7}}\nowidctlpar\fi-360\li720\qj Information Technology professional and leader with over 27 years experience in various software areas including architecture, management, development, project management and training, MS Management (GPA 3.7/4.0) and ME Computer Science (GPA 3.81/4.0).\par

\pard{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf3\pnindent360{\pntxtb\'B7}}\nowidctlpar\fi-360\li720 Extensive experience in areas such as Agile development, Agile methodologies (Scrum, RUP, FDD), Shared services, Web Services, Virtualization, Cloud, Architecture, Application design and development, Infrastructure, Data Center, management, project management, Agile software development frameworks, training and discussing complex topics with diverse teams. IT leader with a strong management and technology background, customer focussed and a proven track record of delivery under budget and prior to deadlines. \par
{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}Excellent communication skills, team player with experience in managing teams of various sizes and also large teams. Led large scale projects for big organizations and extensive IT experience related to telecom, business, financial services, manufacturing, airlines, finance and government including modernization projects. \par
{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}Delivered Agile internet based technology solutions and strategies for e-business platforms, portals, mobile e-business, collaboration and content management. Worked extensively in the areas of application development, infrastructure development, networks, security and has contributed significantly in the areas of Enterprise and Business Transformation, Strategic Planning, Change Management, Release Planning, Technology innovation, Performance management, Agile management and development, Service Oriented Architecture, Shared services, Cloud and worked on Mobility, Big Data.  \par
{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}Extensive experience in establishing vision and translating into actionable deliverables, strategic planning, change management, transformation, consensus building, coalition building, facilitation, negotiation. Built coalitions within organization and with other organizations to achieve open collaboration while deploying emerging technologies and solutions.\par

\pard\nowidctlpar\qj\par
\b Certifications\par

\pard{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf3\pnindent360{\pntxtb\'B7}}\nowidctlpar\fi-360\li720\qj\b0 PMP - PMI Certified, Master of Engineering (ME), Master (MS) Engineering Management, Enterprise Content Management Master ECM (AIIM), International Certified Configuration Manager (CICM), Scrum Master (CSM), Contracting Officer Technical Representative (COTR), Certified ITIL Foundation (ITIL-F), Rational Unified Process (RUP-IBM), Software Engineering Institute (SEI-CMMI), Security (Security +), Amazon Web Services\par

\pard{\*\pn\pnlvlcont\pnf3\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\nowidctlpar\qj\par
\b Work Experience \b0 (roles and related work listed below):\b\tab\par
\par
Washington DC, United States\par
Chief, Agile Coach, Leader, Scrum Master\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab 12/2006 - Present\par
\b0 Projects in government, industry \b\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab\par

\pard{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf3\pnindent360{\pntxtb\'B7}}\nowidctlpar\fi-360\li720\qj\b0 Led Enterprise Information Technology (IT) programs and services, strategically and operationally to deliver agile and high quality solutions including. Planned, organized, led and directed functions of large enterprise-wide information technology resources for US locations. Managed and directed IT resources and modernization initiatives, providing leadership for various areas such as Architecture, Security, Quality Assurance, Application Design and Development \endash  Web and Mobile, Business and System Analysis, Cloud, Big Data, Mobility, Shared Services, PMO (Project Management Office), Change Management, Configuration Management, Release Management, Quality Control, Quality Assurance, System Admins, Database Admins, Capital Planning, Product Development, Core R and D, Data Center, Infrastructure development, Process Development, Production support and related areas. Led initiatives such as Cloud, Big Data, Mobility, Publishing, Application modernization, Architecture development, Agile development, Agile software development frameworks, Lean Development, Shared Services, Mobility and Process development, systems consolidation. Led teams of staff and managers, cross functional teams, including technology and management mentoring, performance monitoring, tasks monitoring, leading and managing cross functional teams, providing technology and management mentoring and training, outreach within and outside the organization, reporting related to issues and risks, briefings, strategic, operational planning, execution and managing operations systems, implementations, deployments. Worked with and in areas such as Labor, Justice, Treasury, Education, Telecommunications, Digital media, Digital management.\f1\par

\pard{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf3\pnindent360{\pntxtb\'B7}}\nowidctlpar\fi-360\li720\f0 Developed and implemented Agile and Lean processes, promoted collaboration and provided coaching, mentoring, training, conducted sprint planning, monitoring, tracked backlog and worked on burndown charts, velocity, training materials, metrics. Worked as Scrummaster, Product Owner, Agile Coach.\par
{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}Coached and mentored Agile in the organization while working with stakeholders and built communities of practice, developed training materials. Worked on Change Management, Release Planning, Transformation, Continuous Improvement and Transition to Lean and Agile. Led Agile projects using Scrum methodology including sprint planning and reviews. Provided Agile and Lean mentoring and coaching. Also worked with Kanban, SAFe, LeSS. Leveraged the SAFE (SAFe) framework. Conducted Agile Release planning, iteration planning and coordinated related meetings and discussions. Worked on Projects with Agile and Scrum together. Led Agile projects with focus on DevOps and continuous integration, delivery, deployment. Managed move from waterfall to Scrum and Kanban. Conducted training in Scrum, Enterprise Agile, Agile techniques, SAfe.\par

\pard{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf3\pnindent360{\pntxtb\'B7}}\nowidctlpar\fi-360\li720\qj Led Agile mobile application development on Android and IOS and on deploying Enterprise Services using Service Oriented Architecture SOA, also Big Data, Cloud, Mobility, integration, consolidation of systems. Worked with UML, use cases and requirements. Developed strategy, roadmap, plans for Agile and DevOps and communicated to stakeholders. Focus on continuous planning, test, integration and developed, monitored related metrics.\f1\par
{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}\f0 Led Agile initiatives for big websites, digital environments. Developed technology modernization strategy and roadmap including applications, legacy systems modernization. Worked on the development of enterprise, segment, solutions architecture, data architecture, systems requirements, design, patterns, frameworks, artifacts, standards, guidelines, processes, standard operating processes, service oriented architecture, cloud, agile development, agile methodologies, business process modeling, business events, standards, best practices for systems and applications. Worked on product development, product management, business case development and management.  Led and worked on the mobile and web development including such Enterprise Applications, Cloud applications, Enterprise strategy, Enterprise mobile strategy, planning, processes, procedures, roadmaps, architecture, design, development, testing, digital technologies, mobile products delivery, user interface design, applications, web services for IOS, Android etc., leveraged Cloud, Service oriented architecture. Designed and developed Cloud solutions, assessments, worked on applications, infrastructure, data center, databases, user interfaces,Federal Enterprise Architecture framework (FEAF), Togaf, UML, business, system IT requirements.\par

\pard{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf3\pnindent360{\pntxtb\'B7}}\nowidctlpar\fi-360\li720 Worked on strategic planning, roadmaps, governance, policies, standard operating procedures, audits, compliance, assessments, self-assessments, best practices, release planning, management, long range planning, short range planning, capacity planning, disaster recovery, business continuity planning, standards for architecture, coding, development, infrastructure, storage solutions, security, monitoring plans, developing policies, business analysis, prioritization of initiatives, documenting key initiatives, performance measures, milestones, outcomes. Chaired Boards such as Change Management Board, Strategy Architecture, Technology Board, interagency committees, to lead Enterprise transformation and Agile initiatives, worked on consolidation, integration of systems, developed strategy, mission, vision plans.\par
{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}Managed programs, worked on information resource planning, acquisition and management of information resources, IT portfolio rationalization and management, budgets, architecture integration, processing hardware sizing and speed, software efficiency assessment, innovative business application and engineering capabilities. Managed scope, schedule, resources, risk, cost, dependencies, quality, worked extensively on requirements gathering, worked on RFPs, RFQs and oversight, negotiation of contracts, statements of work, negotiations, acquisitions, tracking, led and worked on major procurements, capital planning, financials. Worked on product development, product management, business case development and management, digital marketing. Documented requirements, architecture and designs using project/system documentation, business and process workflows, re-engineering, UML. Worked on investment management, capital planning, project prioritization, project dependencies, capability management, test driven development (TDD), Behavior driven development (BDD). \par
{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}Agile, Lean Coach to mentor, coach and lead Agile teams including release, iteration planning for large projects, built communities of practice, developed training materials. Developed and implemented Agile and Lean processes, promoted collaboration, conducted sprint planning, monitoring, tracked backlog and worked on burndown charts, velocity, training materials, metrics. Worked on Change Management, Release Planning, Transformation, Continuous Improvement and Transition to Lean and Agile. Developed strategy, roadmap and plans for Agile and DevOps and communicated to stakeholders. Focus on continuous planning, test, integration and developed, monitored related metrics. Led Agile projects using Scrum methodology, also worked with Kanban, SAFe, Less, XP. Also worked on Projects with SDLC, Agile and Scrum together. Led Agile projects with focus on DevOps and continuous integration, delivery, deployment, led Agile mobile application development on Android and IOS, deployed Enterprise Services using Service Oriented Architecture SOA, also Big Data, Cloud, Mobility. \par

\pard{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf3\pnindent360{\pntxtb\'B7}}\nowidctlpar\fi-360\li720\qj Led Agile initiatives related to the Cloud, Big Data, Mobility. Initiatives leveraged Azure, Amazon Web Services (AWS), Office 365, Oracle Clouds, financials, SQL, Sharepoint and C#, .Net, Java, TFS (Team Foundation Server), Visual Studio, Enterprise Service Bus (ESB),Business intelligence (BI), Hadoop, NoSQL, mobile application development on Android and IOS. Developed services, apis using service oriented architecture and web services, REST, service design patterns.  Designed and implemented Sharepoint and architecture. Interfaced with legacy systems. Worked with \fs14 ITIL, IT Service Management, CMMI, Six Sigma, Lean, DevOps, Kanban\fs16 , set up service desk based on ITIL, worked on ETL, ERP, CRM, data warehousing, data marts, business analytics, business intelligence, analytics, reporting, web analytics, data analytics, data management, digital marketing, case management systems, led initiatives such as electronic collaboration with external vendors, internal collaboration. \par

\pard{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf3\pnindent360{\pntxtb\'B7}}\nowidctlpar\fi-360\li720 Led and developed technology modernization strategy and roadmap including applications, legacy systems, infrastructure, data center, modernization, and storage solutions. Leveraged SQL Server, Oracle, .Net, Java, PHP, Cold Fusion, Perl, SAP, PeopleSoft including Financial, Administrative, HCM modules, TFS (Team Foundation Server), Git, Enterprise Service Bus, ETL, Hadoop, NoSQL, data warehousing, data marts using Informatica. Built security, privacy framework using Microsoft UAG, FIM, Sharepoint. Worked on developing the Enterprise Architecture and Enterprise Services leveraged Service Oriented Architecture SOA, Object oriented development, Big Data, Cloud, Mobility, integration, consolidation of systems. Architected, developed and deployed solutions and applications using the Azure, Amazon Web Services (AWS), Salesforce. Worked with C#, .Net, Visual Studio, Java, TFS, Microsoft Cloud Services, Office 365, SAP, Rational. EMS, JIRA, Hadoop, Mapreduce, SQL, NoSQL, iMIS, 3d development, Business intelligence (BI), Cognos, worked on legacy migration. Worked on Business and IT architecture, requirements, business cases, business processes, procedures, designed and developed web based interfaces to the Cloud back ends and worked on applications, infrastructure, databases, user interface design, development. Led IT security and worked on IT policies, cyber security, security frameworks, implementing OMB and Federal Information Security Management Act (FISMA) policies and requirements, including the system accreditation and certification, access control, continuous monitoring, disaster recovery, contingency planning and compliance. Managed the planning, installation, configuration, testing, implementation of systems and planned, organized and performed large-scale, complex organization wide and multi-year technology refreshes in a multi-site/multi-domain environment. Worked on voice over ip, video teleconferencing, IpV6, HSPD-12, architected, deployed and maintained Federation, Active Directory, Active Directory Federation Services, Led Build and release engineering tasks, SCM tasks such as versioning, integration, branch, merge, code lines, release management, change management including ITIL, set up and maintained service desk.\par

\pard{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf3\pnindent360{\pntxtb\'B7}}\nowidctlpar\fi-360\li720\qj Led and worked on strategic, tactical, operational planning and execution,agile planning, roadmaps, audits, compliance, assessments, change management, long range planning, short range planning, capacity planning, disaster recovery, business continuity planning, technology modernization, standards for architecture, coding, development, infrastructure, security, monitoring, policies, procedures, business analysis, prioritization of initiatives ,performance measures, milestones, testing, quality assurance. \b\par

\pard\nowidctlpar\qj\b0\par
\b Department Of Treasury, Washington, DC  United States\par
Program Manager-Enterprise Architect, Scrummaster \tab\tab\tab\tab\tab 09/2005 - 12/2006\par

\pard{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf3\pnindent360{\pntxtb\'B7}}\nowidctlpar\fi-360\li720\b0 Agile management for Enterprise Architecture Repository and Enterprise Architecture for Department of the Treasury. Worked extensively with the Treasury bureaus to develop the Treasury Enterprise Architecture. Leading IPT for Enteprise Repository. Created statements of work, contracts, memorandums etc. Performed Bureau Self Assessments as required by OMB. Created Enterprise Architecture artifacts. Led and worked on strategic and operational planning and execution, roadmaps, worked with Agile methodologies for software development, test driven development. Defined technical requirements and managed projects associated with software development for multiple, concurrent IT products in large, complex geographically dispersed environments. Worked on product development, product management, business case development, infrastructure. Communicated Agile techniques in the organization, developed training materials, worked as Scrummaster, Product Owner, Agile Coach.\par
{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}Led and managed the Enterprise Repository program and worked with the contractors and several teams in Treasury. Set the overall direction for the Enterprise Repository program to develop a tangible platform for Enterprise Architecture for the Department of Treasury. Worked with several Treasury and bureau teams such as Network, Security etc., and also worked closely with the Enterprise Repository users. Worked extensively on change management and release management. Coordinated training for all the Treasury bureaus.\par
{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}Program management for Enterprise Architecture and the Repository. Developed project plans, milestones, documentation and information related to Enterprise Architecture and Enterprise Repository deployment \par

\pard{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf3\pnindent360{\pntxtb\'B7}}\nowidctlpar\fi-360\li720\qj Prepared policies, strategic and operational plans and represented the organization internally and externally to plan, develop, negotiate, coordinate policy and program matters and issues. Handled situations professionally including adversarial or delicate situations. Attended senior level meetings for the Department of Treasury as Program Manager and Subject Matter Expert. Worked with OMB and served as the liaison to coordinate and develop documentation/memos, responses and related program management activities. Developed documentation for the Treasury OMB submission such as Enterprise Repository Management Team meeting information, project plans, configuration management plans, version reports, html reports etc. Worked on IT governance, best practices, tool assessments, policies, standard operating procedures. Developed Change Management, Release planning, Architecture, Configuration Management, Security plans. \par

\pard{\*\pn\pnlvlcont\pnf3\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\nowidctlpar\qj\b\par
USDA, United States\par
IT Specialist \tab\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab  10/2003 - 09/2005\par
Consultant, ASK Associates\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab         \tab\tab (Feb 03 to Oct 03)\par

\pard{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf3\pnindent360{\pntxtb\'B7}}\nowidctlpar\fi-360\li720\qj\b0 Management, Project Management, Architecture, design and development of web applications for the US Government - USDA.\b  \b0 PROJECTS FOR UNITED NATIONS, WORLD FOOD FUND, US NATIONWIDE PAYMENT APPLICATIONS\par

\pard{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf3\pnindent360{\pntxtb\'B7}}\nowidctlpar\fi-360\li720 Management, Architecture, design and development of web applications for the US Government - USDA. Coordinated and worked on US nationwide and global applications and leveraged Agile and Lean development techniques. Provided Agile and Lean mentoring and coaching. Led projects using SDLC and Agile. Conducted Agile Release planning, iteration planning and coordinated related meetings and discussions. Developed and supported big web sites and digital environments. Worked on IT governance, best practices, tool assessments, policies, standard operating procedures, architecture assessment, standards, architecture decisions. Worked on Quality control, quality assurance and test driven development (TDD). Led and worked on payments and financial projects to make payments to farmers and architected, designed, developed integrated system, layered service oriented architecture with web services, analytics, reporting, business intelligence, dashboards.\par
{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}Performed the lead role in developing software engineering best practices and standards using methodologies, reusable components and design -patterns. Led and worked on strategic and operational planning and execution. \par
{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}Responsible for planning, requirements specification, architecture, design and development, user interface design Worked on IT governance, best practices, tool assessments, policies, standard operating procedures. Worked with Unified Modeling Language (UML), Object Oriented Architecture, Design, Development. Worked extensively on change management and release management.\par
{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}Developed system for sheep and lamb retention using Scrum. State and County users are able to enter applications for producers and make payments using the National Payment Services.\par
{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}Developed systems for commodity requests processing, inventory, management and tracking for domestic and international shipments for the USDA. Designed these applications so they are compliant with the American for Disabilities Act (ADA), Section 508 of the Disabilities Act. Worked on business process documentation, business process re-engineering. Used SDLC, Agile, Scrum. \par

\pard\nowidctlpar\qj\par
\b Sprint, United States\par
Sr. Manager, Agile Coach, Scrummaster\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab 09/2001 - 02/2003\par

\pard{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf3\pnindent360{\pntxtb\'B7}}\nowidctlpar\fi-360\li720\qj\b0 Led the development of the ecommerce platform - management and project management. Performed the lead role in developing software engineering best practices and standards for enterprise development, using Agile methodologies, reusable components and design -patterns. Enterprise level architecture development experience.\par

\pard{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf3\pnindent360{\pntxtb\'B7}}\nowidctlpar\fi-360\li720 Responsible for planning, requirements specification, architecture, design, user interface design and development. Worked with Scrum, Unified Modeling Language (UML), XP and Object Oriented Architecture, Design, Development, Feature driven development, Test driven development. Leveraged Agile and Lean development techniques. Provided Agile and Lean mentoring and coaching. Managed the change and release management areas, SCA-IT, led studies, developed, and managed the telecommunications service and performance requirements programs.  Worked as Agile Coach to coach and lead Agile teams. \par
{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}Worked on IT governance, best practices, tool assessments, policies, standard operating procedures, architecture, infrastructure, assessment, standards, architecture decisions. Chair the Change Control Board to lead initiatives and Agile transition.Worked as Scrummaster, Product Owner, Agile Coach.\par
{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}Led the Agile mobile and web development teams including Enterprise strategy, Mobile portal, Enterprise mobile strategy, planning, processes, procedures, roadmaps, architecture, development, testing, digital technologies, mobile products delivery, user interface design, applications, web services, leveraged Service oriented architecture.Leveraged Agile (feature driven development) methodology, test driven development. Set up center of excellence for Mobile, Web and Business Intelligence.\par
{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}Led Agile projects with Business Analysts, system analysts, developers and project managers nationwide at multiple locations in the US and globally. Worked on IT governance, best practices, tool assessments, policies, standard operating procedures. Worked with telecommunications partners to market and sell services, business development. Developed and supported big web sites and digital environments. Led and managed IT operations, integration of systems and developed IT, change management processes.\par
{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}Prepared policies, strategic and operational plans. Served as the principal senior executive and represented the organization internally and externally to plan,develop negotiate, coordinate policy and program matters and issues.\par

\pard{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf3\pnindent360{\pntxtb\'B7}}\nowidctlpar\fi-360\li720\qj Led and managed Agile cross functional teams, provided technology and management mentoring and training, outreach within and outside the organization, reporting related to issues and risks, briefings, strategic planning, roadmaps, execution and managing operations. Managed teams of staff and managers including mentoring, performance monitoring, tasks monitoring. Worked on strategic planning, governance, policies, standard operating procedures, audits, compliance, assessments, self-assessments, change management, release planning, long range planning, short range planning, monitoring plans, prioritization of initiatives, documenting key initiatives, developing and monitoring budgets, performance measures, milestones, outcomes, Developed technology modernization strategy and roadmap including applications, legacy systems, infrastructure modernization. Leveraged web services and worked with external vendors for building applications using .NET and J2EE.\par

\pard{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf3\pnindent360{\pntxtb\'B7}}\nowidctlpar\fi-360\li720 Worked extensively on Scrum, Agile methodologies, development, management, project management, Agile software development frameworks. Conducted Agile Release planning, iteration planning and coordinated related meetings and discussions. Worked on Quality control, quality assurance and test driven development (TDD). \par

\pard\nowidctlpar\li360\par

\pard\nowidctlpar\qj\b Various Technical and Leadership positions\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab 08/1989 - 09/2001\tab  \b0    \b\par

\pard{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf3\pnindent360{\pntxtb\'B7}}\nowidctlpar\fi-360\li720\qj\b0 Led the delivery of agile/scrum and high quality solutions. Served as Scrum Master and Project Manager coaching teams transitioning to Agile from Waterfall. Strategically managed IT resources and modernization initiatives. Managed and directed IT resources utilizing Lean and Scrum Agile methodology.  Served as Scrum Master for web design team and modernization initiatives including Cloud and Mobility, working as Agile Coach to coach and lead Agile teams for large projects AT Southwestern Bell, Butler, Computervision etc. Worked as Scrummaster, Product Owner, Agile Coach.\par

\pard{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf3\pnindent360{\pntxtb\'B7}}\nowidctlpar\fi-360\li720 Led the architecture, planning, design and development of E-Commerce sites including web and mobile Enterprise applications for SBC for selling phones, creating plans and accessories for large nationwide sites. Led using Agile, Lean, Scrum large enterprise-wide information technology resources for all US locations for enterprise applications including web, mobile, modernization initiatives, enterprise architecture, process development, infrastructure,  IT security, IT portfolio management, legal, regulatory requirements. Used Techniques such as XP, Six Sigma and CMM. Led, worked on strategic and operational planning, execution, worked with Agile methodologies, development, management, project management, Agile software development frameworks. Led teams at multiple locations in the US and globally, developed and supported big websites, digital environments. Developed technology modernization strategy, roadmaps for applications, legacy systems, infrastructure modernization. \par
{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}Led the architecture, design, development and delivery of web sites, worked extensively with the Rational Unified Process (RUP), Agile, UML and SDLC, Six Sigma and CMM. Used Rational Rose and UML for requirements specification. Developed software engineering best practices and standards for enterprise development. Developed enterprise level architecture, project plans using Microsoft Project, tracked and managed web development projects. Responsible for planning and leading/mentoring multinational software engineering team in Java/J2EE development. Used J2EE design patterns and the MVC architecture. Built web services using XML, SOAP and worked with WSDL, and UDDI, worked on database design, security, implementation. Led teams in converting client server applications to web applications. Worked on project management, requirements, architecture, designs using project/system documentation, business and process workflows, re-engineering, use case, class, sequence, activity, collaboration diagrams. Worked on Test driven development (TDD).\par
{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}Responsible for product and project management of Southwestern Bell products, intranet, extranet websites. Product management included developing strategic and tactical product plans and marketing. Built, created and maintained product plans for product creation, change, control, involved in the marketing of these products. Led payments, financial applications, services development including services development and architected, designed, developed integrated system, analytics, reporting, dash boards. Led and worked on the mobile and web development including portals, Enterprise wide mobile and web strategy, planning, processes, procedures, roadmaps, architecture, development, testing, digital technologies, mobile products delivery, user interface design, applications, web services leveraged Service oriented architecture. Set up center of excellence for Mobile, Web. Worked on RFPs RFQs, contracts negotiation. Developed new applications and converted existing client server applications to the web, worked with large scale database and warehousing systems. Worked extensively on requirements gathering, development of enterprise, segment, solutions architecture, data architecture, systems requirements, design, patterns, frameworks, artifacts, standards, guidelines, processes, standard operating processes, service oriented architecture, agile development,  business process modeling, business process re-engineering, business events, standards, best practices, infrastructure and applications architecture, design, development, training, documentation, Security, Help Desk management, Network Management and set policies, guidelines and procedures. Involved in major acquisitions of hardware, software, resources, application support, supported call center and managed the development and test environments for software development for multiple, concurrent Information Technology products in large, complex geographically dispersed environments. Developed test strategies, performance, user acceptance, all testing, change, configuration management controls, worked with telecommunications partners to market and sell services, business development.\par

\pard{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf3\pnindent360{\pntxtb\'B7}}\nowidctlpar\fi-360\li720\qj Led certification and accreditation efforts, maintained information security processes, security control standards for application development, technology deployment, evaluated new security technology, and conducted vulnerability assessments, worked extensively on System security plans, Security risk analysis, risk assessments, ensured Security compliance. Agile Coach to lead large Agile teams, Scrum Master, Manager coaching teams transitioning to Agile from Waterfall.\b  \b0 Technical coordination of all design, development efforts for ordering/pricing applications for Butler (Fortune 500 organization), developed detailed specifications. Performed conceptual design and object modeling using the Rumbaugh methodology and System Architect for OODesign, led applications that used C++, Access, MSTest, Visual Basic.\b  \b0 Designed, developed database design tool for Digital Equipment Corporation,Entity Relationship tool for Naval Ocean Systems Center. \par

\pard\nowidctlpar\qj\par
\b Education: \b0 University of Florida Gainesville, FL  United States Master's Degree GPA: 3.81 of a maximum 4 Master of Engineering; West Coast University San Diego, CA  United States Master's Degree GPA: 3.7 of a maximum 4 MS in Engineering Managemen; BITS Bachelor's Degree Bachelor of Engineering (First Division)\fs14\par

\pard\nowidctlpar\fs16 Professional Publications: Wrote articles on Technology and Management please google search under ajay budhraja. Presentations at many conferences and forums such as FOSE, Cloud Expo, Enterprise Architecture, Digital Government, E-Gov conference, AEA-DC , Powersoft etc. and also keynote presentations, presentations at worldwide and nationwide conferences.. Teaching - Many years teaching as Adjunct Faculty for colleges, universities and training for organizations including Baylor, Webster, Sanford Brown, Linkage, have received many awards, authored articles, presented papers at worldwide conferences.  \par
\b\par
At the above organizations\b0 :\par
-Agile and Scrum experience included planning, managing scope, risks, issues, facilitation, coaching and training to teams, Scrummasters, product owners, developing roadmaps, defining mission, vision, identification, prioritization of initiatives, focus on agile processes and practices, guiding teams, building teams, developing communities of practice, focus on change management, release management, estimating, managing dependencies, mapping stories, managing product and sprint backlog, tracking for velocity, burnup, burndown, playbooks, assessments, sizing stories, focus on standup meetings, conducting demonstrations, cross value streams collaboration, retrospectives, refining, defining and monitoring metrics, enhancing team capabilities, enhancing collaboration, quality, innovation, develop training documentation, focus on iterative and incremental development, working as Agile Coach, Scrummaster, Product Owner.Worked with SAFe, LeSS, RUP, FDD, Pair Programming, SDLC, ITIL, IT Service Management, CMMI, Six Sigma, Waterfall, Lean, PMI-Pmbok, DevOps, Kanban, Scrum, XP, Micrososft Project, Jira, Jira Agile - Greenhopper, Rally, Jenkins, Chef, Puppet, TFS, Rational, Quality Center, Veersion One, DAD, Nexus, CVS, Apache tools. \f2 In Rally worked with \lang1033 user stories, tasks, releases, iterations, portfolio structures, kpi metric dashboards, analysis. In Jira worked with user stories, tasks, iterations, releases, reports and analysis. \f0\lang16393 Extensive experience in applying Agile to major programs and improving productivity, in Agile and coaching, training for Agile methodologies, managing move from waterfall to Scrum and Kanban, Scrum, SAFe, Agile tools for global, nationwide, distributed and off shore teams.\par
-Extensive experience in DevOps and continous deployment, continuous integration, continous delivery including related release management, build management, test engineering, configuration management, application lifecycle management,  release engineering, infrastructure as code, code and component quality, source control, monitoring. Extensive experience in Business, Systems Delivery, Change Management, Release Management, Transition Planning, Transformation planning, Continuous Improvement and as Scrummaster, Product Owner. Led Build, release engineering tasks, SCM tasks such as versioning, integration, branch, merge, code lines, release management, change management including ITIL, set up, maintained service desk. Presented Agile information at Conferences; presentations at worldwide, nationwide conferences.\par
-Led and managed projects, expert in project and program management, worked on vision, strategic plans, business policies, processes and measurements. Developed and implemented innovative strategies and plans for enhancing and improving business processes. Extensive experience with Agile managing and leading the design and implementation of strategies that maximize employee potential and foster standards in meeting organization's vision, mission, and goals. \par
Extensive experience in leading customer-focused initiatives within IT service organizations to re-engineer practices to better serve customers; improving processes, while ensuring product quality and conformance with customer specifications in large organizations, successfully executed organizational missions, programs, projects for technologies such as Cloud, Big Data, Shared Services, Mobility, Service Oriented Architecture, worked with Java,.NET, C++, web services.\par
-Extensive experience in Agile, Lean, Scrum, Kanban, XP, Waterfall, SDLC, DevOps, Continuous Delivery and Integration, Test Driven Development (TDD), Behavior driven development (BDD), IT governance, best practices, value streams, elimination of waste and duplication, tool assessments, policies, standard operating procedures, architecture assessment, standards, architecture decisions, coaching, mentoring internal and external to the organizations. Worked on mixed methodology projects, also behavior driven development. Developed and worked on communication strategies, communication channels, business planning, financial planning, resource data, financial projections, resource projections, program plans, risk management, risk plans, issue management, operational risk management, risk prioritization, risk mitigation, risk remediation. Extensive experience in communications and building coalitions, consensus, facilitation, explaining, advocating, and expressing facts and ideas orally and in writing in a convincing manner. \par
-Led many large IT development projects, have developed strategy, plans, policies, and programs and evaluated long range IT and Cyber Infrastructure. As Adjunct Faculty, taught courses for several universities, have received many awards, authored articles and presented papers at worldwide conferences. Extensive experience in analyzing and assessing business and system requirements, processes, planning, scoping projects and initiatives, budgeting, forecasting, tracking and reporting program and project status, managing deliverables, also monitoring, evaluating customer satisfaction and customer feedback. Led  and worked on the development of standards, best practices, standard operating procedures, policies, procedures and guidelines for new, existing technologies. Reported to stakeholders, executive, senior management about activities, tasks, accomplishments, issues, risks, production, budget, cost, schedule.\par

\pard\nowidctlpar\li360\qj\par

\pard\nowidctlpar\qj\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
}
 