{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}{\f1\fswiss\fprq2\fcharset0 Arial;}{\f2\fnil\fprq8\fcharset0 Arial;}{\f3\fnil\fcharset2 Symbol;}}
{\colortbl ;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue128;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\generator Msftedit 5.41.21.2510;}\viewkind4\uc1\pard\ri-540\sl320\slmult0\tx9180\lang9\b\f0\fs22 Sridhara Reddy T\par
\pard\sl320\slmult0 Sr. Mainframe Developer\par
\cf1 +1 727-403-9609\par
sridharatalla@gmail.com\par
\pard\sl320\slmult0\qc ______________________________________________________________________________\par
\pard\sl320\slmult0\cf0\par
\ul Summary\par
\pard\li720\sl240\slmult1\qj\tx720\ulnone\b0\par
\pard{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf3\pnindent360{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sl240\slmult1\qj\tx720 12+ years of Information Technology experience including Systems and Business Analysis, Software Quality Assurance, Change Management and Programming.\par
{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}Hands-on experience in all stages of Software Development Life Cycle, including Requirement Gathering, Design, Coding, Integration, Testing, production implementation and Subsequent support.\par
{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}Provided both production and development support for several Banking Insurance Utilities and HEALTHCARE applications.\par
{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}Having 6+ years of experience in banking domain and 4+ Experience in HealthCare Domain and Health Claims Processing.\par
{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}Developing requirements (business, functional and testing) for software development, and worked in both SDLC and OOD/OOAD methodologies.\par
{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}Data mapping and process flow analysis experience.\par
{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}Database analysis, design & maintenance experience.\par
{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}Extensive experience in developing scalable and reliable enterprise applications using Mainframe technologies like DB2,COBOL II,JCL,VSAM,CICS,IMS-DB and IMS-DC adhering to coding standards and finishing on time.\par
{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab} Expertise in using Mainframe tools like CHANGEMAN,PANVALET,XPEDITER,JOB-TRAC, CA7, FILE AID,QMF,SPUFI,QMF,SAS,Eztrieve, DCLGEN,NDM,XCOM,TSO /ISPF,FILE MANAGER, BMCADM/BMCADMIN,INFOMAN,CONTROL-M and ENDEAVOR and worked in worked in Agile Scrum Team.\par
{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}Experience in writing Database Objects such as Tables, Indexes , Views and Cursors.\par
{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}Good working experience and knowledge of SDLC, Agile methodology and the scrum processes.\par
{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}Strong Project/technical leadership skills in the areas of mainframe applications and their maintenance projects with development, enhancements, migration and testing.\par
{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}Participated in weekly status meetings and contributed views in project proceedings with client team.\par
{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}Strong experience and co-ordination skills to lead onsite-offshore teams throughout all phases of development life cycle.\par
{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}Excellent communication skills, good organizational abilities, good leadership qualities and excellent problem solving skills.\par
\pard\sl240\slmult1\cf1\par
\ul\b Technical Skills\par
\cf2\ulnone\par
\trowd\trgaph108\trleft108\trrh1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3
\clcfpat1\clcbpat3\clbrdrl\brdrw6\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrt\brdrw6\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrr\brdrw6\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrb\brdrw6\brdrs\brdrcf1 \cellx4783\clcfpat1\clcbpat3\clbrdrl\brdrw6\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrt\brdrw6\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrr\brdrw6\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrb\brdrw6\brdrs\brdrcf1 \cellx9458\pard\intbl\sl240\slmult1\cf1 Mainframes\cf0\b0\cell\cf1\expndtw4\b IBM Mainframe Z/OS, OS/390 and MVS/ESA, IBM-AIX\cf0\expndtw0\b0\cell\row\trowd\trgaph108\trleft108\trrh1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3
\clcfpat1\clcbpat3\clbrdrl\brdrw6\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrt\brdrw6\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrr\brdrw6\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrb\brdrw6\brdrs\brdrcf1 \cellx4783\clcfpat1\clcbpat3\clbrdrl\brdrw6\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrt\brdrw6\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrr\brdrw6\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrb\brdrw6\brdrs\brdrcf1 \cellx9458\pard\intbl\sl240\slmult1\cf1\b Languages\cf0\b0\cell\cf1\expndtw4\b VS COBOL II, JCL, SQL\cf0\expndtw0\b0\cell\row\trowd\trgaph108\trleft108\trrh1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3
\clcfpat1\clcbpat3\clbrdrl\brdrw6\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrt\brdrw6\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrr\brdrw6\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrb\brdrw6\brdrs\brdrcf1 \cellx4783\clcfpat1\clcbpat3\clbrdrl\brdrw6\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrt\brdrw6\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrr\brdrw6\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrb\brdrw6\brdrs\brdrcf1 \cellx9458\pard\intbl\sl240\slmult1\cf1\b Access Method and Online Transaction Processing System(OLTP)\cf0\b0\cell\cf1\expndtw4\b VSAM, CICS\cf0\expndtw0\b0\cell\row\trowd\trgaph108\trleft108\trrh1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3
\clcfpat1\clcbpat3\clbrdrl\brdrw6\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrt\brdrw6\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrr\brdrw6\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrb\brdrw6\brdrs\brdrcf1 \cellx4783\clcfpat1\clcbpat3\clbrdrl\brdrw6\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrt\brdrw6\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrr\brdrw6\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrb\brdrw6\brdrs\brdrcf1 \cellx9458\pard\intbl\sl240\slmult1\cf1\b Database\cf0\b0\cell\cf1\expndtw4\b DB2,IMS-DB,IDMS \cf0\expndtw0\b0\cell\row\trowd\trgaph108\trleft108\trrh1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3
\clcfpat1\clcbpat3\clbrdrl\brdrw6\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrt\brdrw6\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrr\brdrw6\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrb\brdrw6\brdrs\brdrcf1 \cellx4783\clcfpat1\clcbpat3\clbrdrl\brdrw6\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrt\brdrw6\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrr\brdrw6\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrb\brdrw6\brdrs\brdrcf1 \cellx9458\pard\intbl\sl240\slmult1\cf1\b Mainframe Tools\cf0\b0\cell\cf1\b TSO/ISPF, QMF, SPUFI, JOBTRACK, CA-7, INFOMAN, MANAGENOW, FILE - AID, CONTROLM, \cf0 SAS,EZtrieve\b0 ,\cf1\b  TSO, BMCADM, SDF II, CEDF, CEMT, NDM, MFT, FTP Connect:Direct, MQ Series, IDCAMS, SYNCSORT, XPEDITER, IMS HALDB, MicroFocus\cf0\b0\cell\row\trowd\trgaph108\trleft108\trrh1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3
\clcfpat1\clcbpat3\clbrdrl\brdrw6\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrt\brdrw6\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrr\brdrw6\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrb\brdrw6\brdrs\brdrcf1 \cellx4783\clcfpat1\clcbpat3\clbrdrl\brdrw6\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrt\brdrw6\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrr\brdrw6\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrb\brdrw6\brdrs\brdrcf1 \cellx9458\pard\intbl\sl240\slmult1\cf1\b Version Control Tools\cf0\b0\cell\cf1\b CHANGEMAN, ENDEVOR , PANVALET\cf0\b0\cell\row\trowd\trgaph108\trleft108\trrh1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3
\clcfpat1\clcbpat3\clbrdrl\brdrw6\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrt\brdrw6\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrr\brdrw6\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrb\brdrw6\brdrs\brdrcf1 \cellx4783\clcfpat1\clcbpat3\clbrdrl\brdrw6\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrt\brdrw6\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrr\brdrw6\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrb\brdrw6\brdrs\brdrcf1 \cellx9458\pard\intbl\sl240\slmult1\cell\cf1\b MS-Word, Visio, MS-Excel, MS-Outlook, WordPerfect and MS-PowerPoint, J2EE and .NET ,Webservices Testing, Unix\cf0\b0\cell\row\pard\fi720\sl240\slmult1\cf2\b\par
\par
\pard\sl240\slmult1\cf1\b0\par
\ul\b Professional Experience  \par
\par
\ulnone\par
FIS Global/ Fidelity Information Systems, Milwaukee, WI USA                     May 2017 to Nov2017\par
Programmer Analyst II \par
\par
\b0 FIS delivers the technologies that enable you to realize a modern payments environment that  simplifies operations, reduces costs and meets customer needs. Involved in Cardbase Management Solutions and CM Security Applications in Payment Solutions  divison of PSL group. Involved in development maintenance and testing of VISA Debit Processing Services , for  382 message modifications to activate the Card and Credit Authorization process applications.\b  \par
\par
\pard\sl240\slmult1\qj\tx360\cf0 Responsibilities:\par
\b0\par
\pard{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf3\pnindent360{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sl240\slmult1\qj\tx720 Involved in  CMS and CMSe Applications for Activating New Cards, BIN/PREFIX for Financial Instutions using CMS Functionality in setting various limitation and Authorization parameters. \par
{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}Responsible for coding and modification of programs using COBOL, DB2,JCL,VSAM   in the Cardbase Management System.\par
{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}Involved in MAINFRAME Research for Contactless Cards/ VISA Paywave Cards Application for MSD , EMV CHIP Cards for Transaction Processing using Contactless POS/Readers using Near Field Communication Technology.\par
{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}Involved in CBGetHistListing Service Functionality in TRANSACTION HISTORY of Card Holder in CMS screens by displaying ARQC and CVM values. (Authroization ReQuest Cryptogram indiacator and CARD Validation Method ie., Online Siganture or Online encrypted PIN).\par
{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}Developed Test Scripts and test cases by analysing requirements  and Functional Specifications and reviews.\par
{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}Involved in testing , capturing the test results by extracting LOG History and unloading the Account Information of the Card Holder.\par
\pard\sl240\slmult1                 \cf1\b\par
\par
Environment:\b0  COBOL, CICS, DB2, VSAM, IMS-DB/DC, JCL, File master, INSYNC, Endevor, MQ Stream Tester.\b\par
\ul\par
\pard\sl240\slmult1\qj\tx360\cf0\ulnone Blue Shield CA, San Fransisco, CA, USA \tab\tab\tab\tab                 Jun 2015 to Feb 2017\par
Sr Mainframe Developer                                                       \tab\tab                                           \par
\ul\par
\ulnone\par
\cf1\b0 Blue Shield California, is a HLS Client of HP, which is servicing the Client for its Application development and Management for its Health Claims in various areas for Managing the Membership, Claims Processing, Provider and Finance  using the FEP, EDI ,RTMS and TPS Applications etc. In Membership it deals with Enrollment,Billing, Commissions and In Claims Processing it deals with Intake, Adjudication, payments and in Provider they deal with demographics, contracting and pricing and in Finance they will be dealing with disbursements and settlement using various inputs like Health plan codes, TOS/Type of Service Codes etc., for Health Claims processing and payments\cf0 . \par
\par
\b\par
Responsibilities:\par
\b0\par
\pard{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf3\pnindent360{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sl240\slmult1\qj\tx720 Involved in uploading CVS/CareMark PBM reports to BSC Drop Folder on a daily   Basis which comes in mail and analysed and fixed the bugs in the report format by modifying source code programs.\par
{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}Responsible for coding and modification of programs using COBOL, DB2,JCL,VSAM and Assembler for any production issues in the Claims Processing System.\par
{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}Developed Test books ie., test cases by analysing requirements and anlysing source code of the programs and JCLs in FEP and EDI Applications of Planning System. \par
{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}Involved in supporting NDM Connect: Direct Wire release task on a monthly basis.\par
{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}Involved in Data Migration activities ie., from Mainframe databases  to Open Systems compatible databases by extracting, formatting and Transmitting of data.\par
{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}Involved in testing , capturing the test results and Product test status reporting.\par
\pard\sl240\slmult1\cf1\b\par
Environment:\b0  COBOL, CICS, DB2, VSAM, JCL, File master, CA-7, Endevor.\par
\par
\pard\sl240\slmult1\qj\tx360\cf0\b Avis Budget, Bracknell , UK                                                    \tab                   Feb 2014 to Jan 2015\par
Test Analyst  Lead                           \tab\tab                                            \par
\pard\sl240\slmult1\b0\par
Avis Budget   - EMEA Car Rentals booking System, Customer servicing for queue buster application which maintains the Customers information, booking , rental stations or kiosks, available vehicles , additional accesseries and Servicing data for cars booking across the globe.\par
\pard\sl240\slmult1\qj\tx360   \par
\pard\sa160\sl259\slmult0\cf1\b Responsibilities:\cf0\par
\pard{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf3\pnindent360{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sl240\slmult1\qj\tx720\b0 Played a role of Test Analyst and Onsite Coordinator.\par
{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}Responsible for Functional requirements/user stories analysis, Test design and review.\par
{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}Involved in business modelling ie., developing and review of use cases  developed from User Stories/Epics for testing .\par
{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}Worked on Pronto Ph II to maintain the Requirements list for each release.\par
{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}Participated daily scrum meetings apart from involving in Sprint Planning , Sprint Review and Sprint Retrospective meetings with Product owner, Developement team and scum masters.\par
{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}Capturing the execution results and sharing the product status to the stake holders.\par
{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}Coordinated with Functional , Non Functional Testing Teams as a Lead.\par
\pard\li360\sl240\slmult1\qj\tx360\par
\pard\sl240\slmult1\cf1\b Environment:\b0  COBOL, DB2, SQL Server, SPUFI , UML, ALM, FILE-AID,JERA, J2EE, Perfmon\par
\par
\par
\pard\sl240\slmult1\qj\tx360\cf0\b Affinity Waters, Hatford , UK                                                    \tab          Aug 2013 to Jan 2014\par
Test Analyst  Lead                           \tab\tab                                            \par
\pard\sl240\slmult1\b0\par
\f1\fs20 Debt Management System - Migration of old Legacy based DMS system to Oracle based Tallyman for Debt Management of the Affinity Water Customers for a user friendly and efficient management of Customer data and billing management. It deals with Water meters, meter and non meter billing, meter installations and replacement with new meters, House moving, addresses, online billing, Customer billing information , alerts etc.\f0\fs22\par
\pard\sl240\slmult1\qj\tx360   \par
\pard\sa160\sl259\slmult0\cf1\b Responsibilities:\cf0\par
\pard{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf3\pnindent360{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sl240\slmult1\qj\tx720\b0 Played a role of Test Analyst Lead and onsite coordinator\par
{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}Responsible for migration Test design and review f the test cases as per the business requirements.\par
{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}Involved in developing and review of test cases for testing to ensure accuracy in billing.\par
{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}Worked on DMS Application to migrate it to a new oracle based Tallyman online system for its billing system.\par
{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}Participated daily adhoc status meetings apart from involving in reviews and testing\par
{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}Capturing the execution results and sharing the product status to the stake holders.\par
\pard\li360\sl240\slmult1\qj\tx360\par
\pard\sl240\slmult1\cf1\b Environment:\b0   DB2, SQL Server, SPUFI , ALM, JERA, MS Excel\par
\par
\par
\b JPMorgan Chase, Tampa, FL USA                                                                         Jul 2009 to Sept 2013\par
Sr Mainframe Developer\b0                \tab\tab\tab                                            \par
\par
\pard\sl240\slmult1\qj Global Funds Control provides Europe , Asia and US (GFP) applications with the ability to perform Funds Control for all payments in branches, it is a multi-branched, multi-currency Funds Control System that is available world-wide,24 hrs a day and virtually 7 days a week. Systems checks for any Obligor grades, Alerts, Funds availability, Validity of Account etc., before processing any payment transactions. It has subsystem called FTS Marketing approval which allows for a less automated Risk Control. FTS will link to GFC for Risk Control with the decommissioning for the FTS IDR system and the FTS Marketing Approval function. \par
\pard\sl240\slmult1\par
\b Responsibilities:\par
\b0\par
\pard{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf3\pnindent360{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sl240\slmult1\qj\tx720\cf0 Involved in preparing the Functional Design documents(FDD) and Technical Design Documents (TDD) as per the Business Requirements Speications provided.\par
{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}Involved in development phase of the Projects and developed new programs from scratch or modified the programs and JCLs as per the requirements.\par
{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}Preparation of Technical Review documents according to the business specifications and attend the meetings with the Subject Matter Experts, Business people. \par
{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}Worked on the Cobol Coding, DB2,IBM MQ Websphere, VSAM, JCLs etc, from scratch. \par
{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}Worked on Data modeling and created DCLGEN before the execution of the DB2 programs.\par
{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}Involved in  preparation of Unit and SystemTest Specifications, Testing and capturing the results. \par
{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}\tab\par
\pard\sl240\slmult1\cf1\b Environment: \b0 COBOL, DB2, ENDEVOR, SPUFI, CICS,SDF2, IMS-DB, Expeditor, JCL, VSAM, File Aid, QMF, Assembler.\par
\par
\par
\b Medco, Franklinlakes , NJ, USA                                                                          Aug 2008 to Jun 2009\par
Mainframe Developer\b0           \par
   \par
\f2\fs20 The Integrated Tape Processing (ITP) system was created to dynamically generate COBOL/DB2 programs and JCL which, when executed, create billing files that are delivered to clients and third parties through online CICS screens. There are 4 types of billing files created in the ITP batch system:1) Standard CDL (claim detail layout),2) Custom CDL 3) ITP-based custom billing file and 4) Custom billing file. The input to the ITP process is a file containing 2510 byte records that are extracted from the Information Warehouse (IW), a Teradata database that stores the medical bills expenditure and insurance claim information for the Medical Insurance Policy taken from the Insurance providing company for the claims integration and processing.\f0\fs22     \tab\par
\par
\b Responsibilities:\par
\pard{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf3\pnindent360{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sl240\slmult1\qj\tx720\cf0\b0\par
{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}Involved in Business Meetings and preparing the requirement documents  and as per the Business Requirements Speications and coordinated with Offshore team.\par
{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}Preparation of Technical Review documents according to the business specifications and attend the meetings with the Subject Matter Experts, Business people. \par
{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}Involved  Coding of COBOL, DB2, VSAM, JCLs etc, for the bug fixation. \par
{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}Involed in change management using ENDEVER in transferring the JCLs and Documents to Production by putting requests for the approvals from Change Management Leads.\par
{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}Involved in  preparation of Unit and SystemTest Specifications and review of the same. \par
\pard\sl240\slmult1\cf1\tab\par
\b Environment: \b0 COBOL, DB2, ENDEVOR, CICS,SPUFI, JCL, VSAM, File Aid, QMF.\b\par
\par
\b0\par
\b Ameriprice Financial,  Minneapolis, MN USA                                                Dec 2007 to Jul 2008\par
Mainframe Developer\b0           \par
   \par
\f2\fs20 The objective for ITASCA, RMD is to satisfy the IRS regulation of calculating an Entire Interest (EI) Value, which is only applicable for Variable Annuities (which is the sum of the actuarial present value for all additional benefits  plus the Year End account value). It is the starting value in the Required Minimum Distribution (RMD) calculation for Traditional IRAs, SEP IRAs, and TSA variable annuities held by clients (who are 70 \'bd(Owner) or greater or Inherited Trad IRAs, Inherited SEP IRAs and Inherited Roth IRAs regardless of age. This new Entire Interest Value needs to be available on Admin Server, the new Policy Administrative System where the Annuity exists. \f0\fs22   \tab\par
\par
\b Responsibilities:\par
\b0\par
\pard{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf3\pnindent360{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sl240\slmult1\qj\tx720\cf0 Involved in Analysis of business requirements and preparing the Functional Design documents(FDD).\par
{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}Preparation of Technical Review documents according to the business specifications and attend the meetings with the Subject Matter Experts, Business people. \par
{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}Review of  Cobol Coding, DB2,IBM MQ Websphere, VSAM, JCLs etc, for the module. \par
{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}Involved in  preparation of Unit and SystemTest Specifications and review of the same. \tab\par
\pard\sl240\slmult1\cf1\b Environment: \b0 COBOL, DB2, ENDEVOR, SPUFI, JCL, VSAM, File Aid, QMF, Assembler.\par
\par
\pard\sl240\slmult1\tx6120\kerning1\b\f1\fs20 Bank of America,  Charlotte , USA\kerning0\f0\fs22                                                                   Jun 2007 to  Nov 2007\par
\pard\sl240\slmult1 Mainframe Developer\b0     \par
\par
\pard{\*\pn\pnlvlcont\pnf0\pnindent0\pnstart1\pndec }
\nowidctlpar\kerning1 PACE(Profitability and Customer Service Enhancement )  is an integrated personal trust system, which provides both batch and on-line functions. It is the system of record for the Private Bank Trust side as well as a large number of Columbia Management accounts.Nightly batch jobs perform file maintenance for various master files (Account, Asset, Holder, Name/Address, Tickler, Price History Transaction History, Tax Lots, etc). The batch jobs also process Trust Fees, ACH, House Account and Checks. In addition, Automatic Cash Investment, Common Trust Fund, Income Collection and Customer Reporting are all a parts of the integrated nightly processing.  \cf0\lang16393\par
\pard\sl240\slmult1\cf1\lang9 Online function includes Security Movement and Control, Security Trading Trades, File Maintenance, User Defined Screens, Pending Release, various inquiry screens and other related monetary transactions.\par
\par
\pard{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf3\pnindent360{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sl240\slmult1\cf0\lang1033\kerning0 Analysis of the business requirements and gathering the requirements\lang9 .\cf1\par
\cf0{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}Involved in preparing Functional Requirement Specifications, and clarifications log\cf1\par
\cf0{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}Prepaing the detailed Technical Design Specifications for the enhancement and bug fixing.\cf1\par
\cf0{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}Translating technical requirements into programmed modules ie., Coding  of new programs and handled changes to existing programs using\cf1  Cobol DB2, VSAM, JCLs etc. \par
{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}Involved in  preparation of Unit and SystemTest Specifications, Testing and capturing the results. \par
\pard\sl240\slmult1\par
\b Environment: \b0 COBOL, JCL, VSAM, DB2, CICS, SPUFI , SAS, Infoman , Manage now, \cf0 Eztrieve \cf1 and Changeman\par
\par
\pard\sl240\slmult1\tx6120\b AVIVA, Norwich Union UK                                                                                   Jan 2007 to May 2007\par
\pard\sl240\slmult1 Mainframe Developer\b0     \par
AVIVA - Wagnor is currently managing the Customers  unclaimed  funds for the re organization and redistribution in an effective manner to gain more profit.Comprises two modules  Election House and Election Mailing which distributes or allocates unclaimed funds among Customers and the Organization as per the voting.  \par
           \cf0\par
\pard{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf3\pnindent360{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sl240\slmult1 Analysis of the Business or System requirements specifications, preparation of clarifications log.\cf1\par
\cf0{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}Involved in preparing Functional Requirement Specifications, detailed Technical Design Specifications.\cf1\par
\cf0{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}Translating technical requirements into programmed modules ie., Coding  of new programs and handled changes to existing programs using\cf1  Cobol DB2, VSAM, JCLs etc. \par
{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}Involved in  preparation of Unit and SystemTest Specifications, Testing and capturing the results. \par
\pard\sl240\slmult1\tab\par
\b Environment: \b0 COBOL, DB2, ENDEVOR, SPUFI, CICS, SDF2, Expeditor, JCL, VSAM, File Aid, QMF.\b\par
\ul\par
\ulnone\par
\pard\sl240\slmult1\tx6210 American Express , Tampa, FL USA                                                                   \highlight3 May 2006 \endash  Dec 2006\par
\pard\sl240\slmult1 Mainframe Developer\highlight0\par
\pard\sl320\slmult0\tx7140\highlight3\par
\pard\sl320\slmult0\qj\tx7140\b0 American Express Company, also known as Amex, is an American multinational financial services corporation. Customer Focused Sales portal is used for servicing the customer as well as giving offer's to the customer based upon their spend amount.\highlight0 The purpose checks and Balance Ecs workflow is to build a robust "delivery tracking/Alerting " mechanism for the (eCS) e-Communication Suite. \highlight3 As a part if this project there were backend changes, COBOL programs, jobs were added to the application and modifications to the existing jobs, COBOL programswere done.\par
\pard\sl320\slmult0\tx7140\par
\highlight0\b Responsibilities:\par
\pard{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf3\pnindent360{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sl240\slmult1\qj\tx720\cf0\b0 Provided technical support during integration testing for projects as well as documenting the installation and support processes for environments.\par
{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}Implemented program changes, prepared systems documentation and status reports as requested to development manager.\par
{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}Understands business requirements, proposes flexible solutions, and provides specifications and designs in support of application development.\par
{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}Promote best design and coding practices and provided technical guidance.\par
{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}Monitoring the Jobs through JOB-TRAC and fixation of abended jobs.\par
{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}Created a high level/detail level system designs specifications.\par
{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}Coordinated with the front end teams in regression testing the Applications.\par
{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}Documented the flow of Application programs.\par
{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}Worked on request requiring table changes in DB2.\par
{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}Performed impact analysis and prepared Impact document.\par
{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}Development of code as per the requirement.\par
{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}Development of COBOL and Db2 programs as per the requirement and implemented stored procedures.\par
{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}Involved in writing Database Objects such as Tables, Indexes, Stored Procedures, Views, User Defined Functions, and Cursors.\par
{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}Implementing changes in the production.\par
{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}Strong development skills in COBOL, DB2, VSAM, JCL, IMS-DB,  and ISPF.\par
\pard\sb100\sa100\sl320\slmult0\cf1\b Environment: \b0 COBOL, JCL, VSAM, DB2, Spufi, NDM, IMS-DB, TSO BMCADM, Infoman , Manage now, and Changeman\b\par
\pard\sl320\slmult0\par
GE Medical Systems, Milwaukee, WI, USA                                                May 2003 \endash  Apr 2006\par
Mainframe Developer\par
\b0 GEMS - ISCReM Intuitive Service Contract Resolution Module (ISCReM) takes its inputs from MSA information of the Medical diagnostic devices sold and Customer Service Engineer information from the CARES modules to generate Invoices.\par
\b\par
Responsibilities\par
   \par
\pard{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf3\pnindent360{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sl320\slmult0\b0 Coordinate with business clients, support the application and implement the process as per specifications provided.\b\par
\pard{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf3\pnindent360{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sl240\slmult1\qj\tx360\cf0\b0 Responsible for coding new programs in COBOL, DB2, CICS and IMS-DB in batch and online mode for various Job Jar Activities for enhancement or maintenance or fixation of Production issues.\par
{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}Modified CICS screens to add new fields as part for Functional requirements.\par
\pard{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf3\pnindent360{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sl320\slmult0\cf1 Analysis, Coding, Unit Testing, Regression Testing, Implementation of the new requirements.\b\par
\b0{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}Preparing technical design and technical requirement documents coordinated with DBA to make changes in DB2 Tables and for creation of IMS-DB PSB and PCB as per the requirements.\b\par
\b0{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}Developing the code as per the requirements and perform Unit testing.\par
{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}Responsible for Version control, movement of code and components from deployment area to integration system and production system.\par
{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}Participated in project discussions and weekly status meetings of the project proceedings with the onsite team.\par
{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}Documented the flow of Application Programs to understand the system.\par
{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}Worked on requests aimed at updating various\b  \b0 DB2 Tables.\par
\pard\sl320\slmult0\tx11940\b\tab\par
\pard\sl240\slmult1 Environment: JCL, VSAM, COBOL, DB2, CICS,IMS-DB, Expeditor, Panvalet and File-Aid.\par
\par
\par
\par
\pard\sl240\slmult1\tx6210\f2\fs20 P&O Nedlloyd\f0\fs22 , London, UK                                                                             \highlight3 Jan 2003 \endash  May 2003\par
\pard\sl240\slmult1 Developer\par
\par
\b0 At its height, P&O Nedlloyd had over 70 established trade lanes and provided connections to more than 250 main ports serving 120 countries worldwide.  These elements, combined with well-developed feeder lines, extensive inland transport capabilities and port facilities, formed the base of its business, which quickly earned a reputation for being customer-focused.\par
Team station at NOIDA II, provides production support for DRS application implemented.   Document and Revenue System maintains details of the Customers having business with the Client, which includes history of the Customer in terms of percentage of the total business revenue that is providing to the Client , Payment history, line of business , number of years that they are providing business to the client etc based on which Customer will be categorized and given preference in allocating containers and percent of reduction in charges.\par
\par
\pard{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf3\pnindent360{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sl320\slmult0\highlight0 Coordinate with business clients, support the application for its Applicatin Manintenance and support.\b\par
\pard{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf3\pnindent360{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sl240\slmult1\qj\tx360\cf0\b0 Responsible for coding of modication or updation of programs in COBOL, DB2, in batch  mode for Application maintenance and fixation of Production issues.\par
{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}Preparation of test cases for unit testing and responsible for status updation.\cf1\b\par
\pard{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf3\pnindent360{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sl320\slmult0\b0 Preparing technical design and technical requirement documents.\b\par
\b0{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}Involved in preparation of User Operational documentation for the existing functionality.\b\par
\pard\sl240\slmult1\highlight3\par
\highlight0 Environment:  COBOL , DB2, TOAD, RPG, File-Aid, NDM, AIX, Rational Rose\highlight3\par
\highlight0\par
\par
\pard\sl240\slmult1\tx6210\f2\fs20 ELI LILLY\f0\fs22 , Minneapolis, USA                                                                          \highlight3 Sep 2002 \endash  Dec 2003\par
\pard\sl240\slmult1 Developer\par
\par
\pard\tx720\highlight0\b0\f2\fs20 This project 'US Demand Validation',  is executed as a part of Sarbanes-Oxley Auditing Compliance comprising following modules or Applications of  Eli Lilly Pharmaceutical Client. \par
AquiredSystems,DbAs,CLAIMS,SP,DOC,EIC,HRSAD,IC,ITEM,MDD,Medicaid,PVS,SAMPLES,INFOTRAC, PFI, Gemstone, Pedagogue etc., The primary function of the EIC system include maintaining( add, update, delete) medical professional demographic information maintaining(add, update) DEA certification information.\par
\par
\pard{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf3\pnindent360{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sl320\slmult0 System Study of EIC Module and, Analysis of the Business Requirements\f0\fs22 .\par
{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}Prepared Functional Specifications using System Requirement Specifications.\par
{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}Prepared Testing Documentation including Test Plan, Test Scripts.\par
{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}Involved in System Testing and used System Test plan\par
{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}Updation of testig status to Stake holders and Management \par
{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}Ensured accuracy, consistency and user friendliness of Operational support documentation for  US SOX  auditing standards compliance testing project.\par
\pard\li360\sl320\slmult0\par
\pard\sl240\slmult1\b Environment: JCL, VSAM, COBOL II, DB2, ,IMS-DB, SPUFI, File-Aid, and Power Builder.\par
\b0\par
\par
\par
\b\par
}
 